%!TEX root=dslrob.tex

\section{Conclusions and future works}
\label{sec:conclusion}

In this paper, we have proposed to use \diaspec{}, a domain-specific
design language for Sense/Compute/Control applications, in a robotics
setting. We have shown how this language allows a developer to
structure an application in fine-grained and reusable components by
following the SCC architectural pattern. Developing a complex
application shows the benefits of such an approach in terms of reusing
existing software and lowering complexity for the developer. We have
also highlighted various problems we have met during the development
of a standard robotics application.

Being able to adapt a robotics system to different capabilities and
resources is a key issue in software engineering for robotics. For
example, two similar missions can be performed differently with
different resources on the robot. Our approach facilitates changes to
a robotics system by making explicit the software components and their
interactions. However supporting static adaptation is not enough in a
robotics setting as robots need to dynamically adapt to resource
evolutions (\eg{} failures and environment) while performing their
tasks. \emph{Resource-adaptive architectures} address dynamic
adaptations. However, such architectures are ad hoc solutions that can
not be reused and scaled. Therefore, an ideal robot control
architecture should be \emph{resource-adapting}, \ie{} an architecture
that explicitly manages and represents resources~\cite{Bour07a}. The
main perspective of this work is to introduce such dynamic variability
inside \diaspec{}.
